README.md, before:

# News Aggregator API

## Overview

The News Aggregator API provides a RESTful interface for aggregating news articles from multiple sources. It supports user authentication, article management, and personalized news feeds. The API integrates with NewsAPI and the New York Times API for a diverse range of news coverage.

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Register, login, and manage user sessions with token-based authentication.
- **Article Management**: Fetch, search, and view articles with pagination.
- **Personalized News Feed**: Retrieve news tailored to user preferences.
- **Integration**: Fetch news from NewsAPI and the New York Times API.

## Documentation

For detailed API documentation, including endpoints and usage examples, visit [SwaggerHub Documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis-docs/AFRIDIADNAN11/news-aggregator_api/1.0.0#/default/post_register).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- PHP 8.3+
- Laravel 11
- Composer
- MySQL

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd <repository-directory>

2. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    composer install

3. Set up the environment:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    php artisan key:generate

4. Configure your database settings in the .env file.

5. Run migrations:
    ```bash
    php artisan migrate

6. Start the development server:
    ```bash
    php artisan serve

## Environment Configuration

To ensure that the application can fetch news from the APIs, you need to set up the following environment variables in your `.env` file:

- **NYT_API_KEY**: Your API key for accessing the New York Times API.
- **NEWS_API_KEY**: Your API key for accessing the News API.

### Steps to Set Up

1. **Obtain API Keys:**
   - Sign up for an API key from the [New York Times API](https://developer.nytimes.com/) and [News API](https://newsapi.org/).

2. **Update the `.env` File:**
   - Open the `.env` file located in the root of your project.
   - Add the following lines with your respective API keys:

     ```plaintext
     NYT_API_KEY=your_nyt_api_key_here
     NEWS_API_KEY=your_news_api_key_here
     ```

3. **Save and Close the `.env` File.**

4. **Clear Configuration Cache (if applicable):**
   - Run the following Artisan command to clear and cache your configuration:

     ```bash
     php artisan config:cache
     ```

By setting these environment variables, the application will be able to use the API keys for fetching and updating news data.


# Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! To get started, please follow these steps:

1. **Fork the repository**.

2. **Create a new branch**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

3. **Commit your changes:**:
   ```bash
   git commit -am 'Add new feature'

4. **Push to the branch:**:
   ```bash
    git push origin feature/YourFeature

5. **Create a new Pull Request.**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

# Project Setup with Docker

This project can be set up using Docker and Docker Compose. Follow the instructions below to get started.

## Prerequisites

- **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed on your machine. [Download Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- **Docker Compose**: Ensure Docker Compose is installed. [Docker Compose Installation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Setting Up the Project

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd <repository-directory>

2. **Start Docker Containers**:
   ```bash
    docker-compose up -d

    This command will build the Docker images and start the containers in the background.

3. **Run Migrations**:
    Execute migrations inside the Docker container:

   ```bash
    docker-compose exec app php artisan migrate

    Replace app with the name of your application service as defined in the docker-compose.yml file. This command will run the database migrations to set up the database schema.

4. **Access the Application**:

    The application should be accessible at `http://localhost:8000` or a different port specified in your `docker-compose.yml`.

Commit message:

Adds info in README about testing

README.md, after:

# News Aggregator API

## Overview

The News Aggregator API provides a RESTful interface for aggregating news articles from multiple sources. It supports user authentication, article management, and personalized news feeds. The API integrates with NewsAPI and the New York Times API for a diverse range of news coverage.

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Register, login, and manage user sessions with token-based authentication.
- **Article Management**: Fetch, search, and view articles with pagination.
- **Personalized News Feed**: Retrieve news tailored to user preferences.
- **Integration**: Fetch news from NewsAPI and the New York Times API.

## Documentation

For detailed API documentation, including endpoints and usage examples, visit [SwaggerHub Documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis-docs/AFRIDIADNAN11/news-aggregator_api/1.0.0#/default/post_register).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- PHP 8.3+
- Laravel 11
- Composer
- MySQL

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd <repository-directory>

2. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    composer install

3. Set up the environment:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    php artisan key:generate

4. Configure your database settings in the .env file.

5. Run migrations:
    ```bash
    php artisan migrate

6. Start the development server:
    ```bash
    php artisan serve

## Environment Configuration

To ensure that the application can fetch news from the APIs, you need to set up the following environment variables in your `.env` file:

- **NYT_API_KEY**: Your API key for accessing the New York Times API.
- **NEWS_API_KEY**: Your API key for accessing the News API.

### Steps to Set Up

1. **Obtain API Keys:**
   - Sign up for an API key from the [New York Times API](https://developer.nytimes.com/) and [News API](https://newsapi.org/).

2. **Update the `.env` File:**
   - Open the `.env` file located in the root of your project.
   - Add the following lines with your respective API keys:

     ```plaintext
     NYT_API_KEY=your_nyt_api_key_here
     NEWS_API_KEY=your_news_api_key_here
     ```

3. **Save and Close the `.env` File.**

4. **Clear Configuration Cache (if applicable):**
   - Run the following Artisan command to clear and cache your configuration:

     ```bash
     php artisan config:cache
     ```

By setting these environment variables, the application will be able to use the API keys for fetching and updating news data.

## Testing

For running tests, you should configure a separate environment. Laravel uses the `.env.testing` file for this purpose.

### Steps to Set Up Testing Environment

1. **Create `.env.testing` File:**
   - Copy your `.env` file to a new file named `.env.testing`:

     ```bash
     cp .env .env.testing
     ```

2. **Update `.env.testing`:**
   - Open the `.env.testing` file and set the `APP_ENV` to `testing` and configure any testing-specific settings if needed:

     ```plaintext
     APP_ENV=testing
     DB_CONNECTION=sqlite
     DB_DATABASE=:memory:
     ```

     Adjust the database settings as required for testing. The example above uses an in-memory SQLite database for faster tests.

3. **Run Tests:**
   - You can run your tests using PHPUnit:

     ```bash
     php artisan test
     ```

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! To get started, please follow these steps:

1. **Fork the repository**.

2. **Create a new branch**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

3. **Commit your changes:**:
   ```bash
   git commit -am 'Add new feature'

4. **Push to the branch:**:
   ```bash
    git push origin feature/YourFeature

5. **Create a new Pull Request.**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

# Project Setup with Docker

This project can be set up using Docker and Docker Compose. Follow the instructions below to get started.

## Prerequisites

- **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed on your machine. [Download Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- **Docker Compose**: Ensure Docker Compose is installed. [Docker Compose Installation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Setting Up the Project

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd <repository-directory>

2. **Start Docker Containers**:
   ```bash
    docker-compose up -d

    This command will build the Docker images and start the containers in the background.

3. **Run Migrations**:
    Execute migrations inside the Docker container:

   ```bash
    docker-compose exec app php artisan migrate

    Replace app with the name of your application service as defined in the docker-compose.yml file. This command will run the database migrations to set up the database schema.

4. **Access the Application**:

    The application should be accessible at `http://localhost:8000` or a different port specified in your `docker-compose.yml`.
